Preample
--------

Forget about DKPs.

This loot system, introduces two measurable quantities: Effort Points
(EP) and Gear Points (GP). We also define computable quantity Priority
(PR) as EP/GP.

 * EPs are awarded for your effort towards the guild's goals. This can
   be anything from boss kills, to special farming bonuses or tries in
   new bosses.

 * GP are the total points the gear you received is worth.

 * PR the priority you have to receive loot.

Having PR being the quotient of EP and GP, guarantees that the amount
of loot you receive is proportional to the effort you put. When an
item drops, the member with the highest priority can choose to receive
it or pass it down. Then the next member has the choice and so forth
until the item is given to a member or disenchanted.

Another interesting part of this system is that it only considers
effort and gear in a predefined window in the past and not over all
your time in the guild. This is setup by setting the Raid Window
Size. This represents the number of raids back for which EP/GP are
going to be summed over. This rule is meant to completely disable EP
farming.

The addon and guild credentials
-------------------------------

The addon keeps track of EPs and GPs in the public and officer's notes
(in game). It also expects a directive of the alts (if you want to
share EPs and GPs between them in guild information.

Because it uses in game elements that need special credentials to be
edited it is recommended to use the following setup:

* Guild Master: able to edit everything.

* Officers (or Raid Leaders): able to read/write everything, except
guild information.

* Rest: able to read at least public and officer's notes and guild
information.

Usage
-----

Once you install the addon, login and perform:

/epgp reset

in order to clear all the public and officers notes. Even though
Officers can edit those notes, the addon disallows anyone but the
Guild Master to perform this action.

The rest of the functionality can be accessed either by right clicking
the minimap icon, or through the command line (/epgp help shows
available options).

Here are the functions that can be used by the different ranks (if
setup as described in the previous section). Of course members higher
in the hierarchy can perform all the functions people lower in the
hierarchy can.

 * Guild Master:
  - Reset EP/GP
  - Award EPs to individual member
  - Change the raid window

 * Officers:
  - Award EPs to raid (only awards EPs to those in the same zone as the
    Raid Leader)
  - Credit GPs to individual members
  - Start new raids (effectively throwing away the last raid of the
    history and start keeping track of the new one in the latest raid
    slot).

 * Members:
  - Check EPs/GPs and get the standings sorted by PR. This panel can be
    accessed by clicking the minimap icon.

Sharing EPs and GPs among alts
------------------------------

You can choose to group all toons of the same member into a single
pool of EP/GP. In order to do this the guild information text must be
edited. For each alt a line must be added like so:

Main:Alt

This means that Main and Alt will have a shared pool of EPs and GPs
and only Main will appear in standings and history.

A Main can have multiple alts simply by specifying multiple lines in
guild information:

Main:Alt1
Main:Alt2

Please note that it is not advisable to change this information once
you started using EPGP. Additions to it should not matter (adding more
alts for existing mains, or even new ones). Changing Main:Alt to
Alt:Main just to make alt's name appear instead of the main's will
wreck havock in those members EPs and GPs.

Example usage
-------------

The Raid Leader uses the Start New Raid option of the addon to discard
the last raid and start logging EPs/GPs for the current raid. Then
invites are sent to all scheduled members, 10 mins before the
scheduled time. On the scheduled time (provided the Raid Leader is the
pre-announced meetup place) awards bonus EPs for the raid members
being on time. (NOTE: Since the addon awards EPs *only* to the raid
members that are in the same zone as the Raid Leader, it is not
necessary to check who is there or not from the people actually in the
raid).

Raid starts, and first boss is down. Assuming that the guild policy is
to award EPs and then loot, the Raid Leader awards the raid with the
predetermined EPs for the boss kill. Then he announces the loot. The
drop is a non-class drop so all are eligible for it. The member at the
top of the standings list needs the item. The Raid Leader gives the
item to the member and credits him with the predetermined amount of
GPs for the item. The member's PR will automatically be updated after
this action and he may no longer be at the top of the standings list.

The raid ends and the Raid Leader awards some bonus points to those
still in the Raid for staying until the end. The raid is disbanded and
no further action is necessary.

Discussion
----------

The choice to keep EP/GP data in game might not be the best for
everyone. Here is a list of advantages/disadvantages of it.

Advantages:

 * No need for external database to keep track of standings.

 * Standings are seen and updated in real time. No more alt-tab to
   check if you can get loot or not.

Disadvantages:

 * You loose public/officer's notes and guild information texts.

 * There is very limited history. As of today the history is limited to
   14 past raids. Only total EPs and GPs are tracked for each one.

 * There must be some sort of setup in what access you want to give to
   each rank for this to work.



  In game
setup -------------

The addon assumes that:

* Only the Guild Master can change the Raid Window and award
individual bonus EPs.

* Only ranks that can edit both public and officer's notes can award
EPs to raid and credit GPs to individuals. The same group can also
start a new raid, which effectively mean to start adding GPs/EPs to a
new column.

* The rest must have read access to both public and officer's notes in
order to see their effective PR.

In most guild setups, all members should have read access to both
public and officer notes, and raid leaders should be able to edit
both.

The addon also assumes that the guild information text contains info
about the alts so that it can share the EPs/GPs between them. This can
be added manually by someone who can edit that field (it is
recommended that only the guild master can do that. The format is one
assignement per line:

Main:Alt

Which is interpreted as sharing all the EPs/GPs for both Main and Alt
and count it all as Main.

Adding more assignments should work fine, but editing existing ones
will most likely require an epgp reset.

The guild master also has the ability to reset all EP/GP data using
the following slash command:

/epgp reset

This is recommended to be once the EP/GP is in place (on inception of
the guild) to clear all public/officers notes.
